---
edit_uri: https://github.com/Omni-guides/Tuxborn/wiki/Making-your-own-NPC-Merge
---

If you want to create your own NPC merge, you can. First be aware that this breaks Rule 11, no if’s or buts about it. If you only want to replace a couple of npc’s you are better off just placing them at the end of the load order and making any patches needed with xedit, that will be easier and quicker. We will assume you have some knowledge about the tools involved in this quick guide already, if not look at the guides on the main readme, at the end of the document.

First of all you will want to make a copy of the profile you are using in mo2, this is the profile you will use during these steps. Don’t do these steps on the profile you use to play the game. First go into the NPC Overhaul header in mo2 and disable every mod in there. Now for the most annoying step, go to the load order library -> Show Disabled -> go to the NPC Overhaul header and install all the mods you see in red. Load order doesn’t matter, just make sure all esp are enabled. Now add any overhaul you want to use and again load order doesn’t matter, just take note of what name the esp have.

Now you are ready to run Easy NPC, the short cut is already set-up in mo2 you should only need to un-hide it. Make sure every esp/esm/esl is selected when starting the program (expect a couple of patches with a warning sign, that is normal). You will now see a list of npc, ignore that for now and click on the folder next to the save icon. Go to your Tuxborn folder -> Tools -> Easy NPC and click on the Tuxborn NPC with the highest number. Now click on the funnel -> Face plugin -> now filter for the esp of the npc overhaul you added. This is where the fun starts, click on every npc and set their face to the plugin you want to use. Repeat these two steps until you replace every npc you want, after that you can click on build at the top. Now click Build anyway and ignore the warnings, this will take a hot minute so grab a drink, back in mo2 hit f5. You now have a new npc merge mod at the bottom of mo2, go back to the originale profile you copied at the start and replace the tuxborn merge with this new one.  
