---
edit_uri: https://github.com/Omni-guides/Tuxborn/wiki/Mod-overview:-Unfaltered-Virtue
---

‼️ **Annathepiper has not played this mod yet, so this overview page is a stub at this time, posted to cover a couple of known issues that came up in discussion on #txbn-general.** ‼️

## "What is this mod about?"

Unfaltered Virtue is an overhaul of the quest to destroy the Dark Brotherhood.

## "What are some other recommendations for running Unfaltered Virtue?"

### Babette and Sybille have no voiced lines

The current version of this mod had all lines generated by AI yanked by the mod author. We therefore recommend that you turn on subtitles while playing Unfaltered Virtue, at least for the duration of the mod, if you weren't already playing with subtitles active.

### Quest can break if Sybille Stentor dies in your playthrough prior to running this mod

This mod's questline requires interacting with Sybille Stentor. Sybille is _not_ Essential. And given that we're running the [Unmasking Sybille](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/109265) mod in our load order, it's worth noting that "killing Sybille" is one of the outcomes of _that_ mod. If you choose to kill Sybille as part of that mod, and you run it _before_ you run Unfaltered Virtue, it will cause quest breakage in Unfaltered Virtue in a scene where Sybille's presence is required.

The following workaround was posted on Nexus as a means to get around this problem via the console:

>Open the console before you enter the Penitus Oculatus building with Babette and enter:<br><br>
>`prid 198C5`<br>
>`setav aggression 0`<br>
>`resurrect`<br><br>
>The scene should play out correctly when you enter the building, and then you can kill her again after.